When it comes to measuring our owned channels,
we're going to spend a lot of time looking at our website.
This is because our website is typically core to our marketing efforts.
We know that we can measure just about every way a user interacts with our website.
From where they came from,
to what they're doing on our site,
to even how they're doing it.
Now, other aspects of your owned include email marketing,
the interactions users is taking within your product or application,
and even the content that you're distributing on your social channels.
Now, there's also an argument to be made that
SEO lives somewhat in the own space as well.
You'll earn the actual listing on say Google,
but you own everything that you do to improve your site and
your content to capture that listing and generate that rank.
Now, we also have to consider the sales process.
All the steps that we control.
From the user becoming aware of our brand,
to that conversion event.
We even look beyond the sales process at retention metrics such as Churn.
Now, there's a lot of data within our own channels.
Let's talk about some common questions that we'll answer.
Earlier, you spent quite a bit of time with Google Analytics.
I don't feel it's necessary for us to explore all of
those common datasets and where you're gathering that information instead,
I want to focus just on our blog.
Let's evaluate what data is important with our blog.
Now for starters, we're obviously interested in how much traffic is arriving to our blog.
That is a good signal of how it's performing but beyond that,
we have our engagement metrics.
These are datapoints like Time on the Page.
We use Time on Page to understand if people are actually reading the content.
If you have a very long article,
and you notice that your time on that page is only 20 seconds,
well you have a good assumption that something is wrong there.
This also goes into your bounce rate.
If a lot of people are leaving the site after they visit this page,
then you need to understand why aren't they staying?
Why aren't they continuing on into other pages of your site?
We also want to understand where this traffic is coming from.
We need to evaluate if we're resonating with the right audiences.
If we're trying to get traffic coming for a particular source and it's not happening,
we need to figure out why.
Now, there are some other questions that we want to answer.
Is this content resonating?
Which of our content is most popular and what content is driving the most revenue for us?
Now, we can think even broader.
We might look at how the blog is assisting with our conversions.
The blog lives somewhere in that customer journey.
So we need to understand what the cost being spent on the Blogger and then
evaluate if it's doing its job to
demonstrate that it's bringing us a return on investment.
Let's move on to e-mail marketing.
We looked at e-mail and we often primarily study
the open rate and the click-through rate on our messages.
These are engaged with metrics and they help us understand if
the audience is engaging with the content that we're sending them.
Now, we can start by comparing those metrics.
We could look at the trends over time.
Are our open rates getting better?
Are they getting worse? Our click-through rates
improving and this could be a function of how we're adjusting the content.
But we also need to look at the larger narrative.
How many emails did we send to a particular segment each week?
That could influence the open rates.
More emails, perhaps we see less open rates.
What about how many spam complaints we're getting?
This could identify, that the message we sent was
particularly off-brand or maybe out of character.
Perhaps we were pushing the wrong information and it didn't resonate.
Now, zooming out even more,
we might measure performance against days of
the week or what types of headlines resonate the most.
Let's move on to SEO.
With SEO, we're looking at our organic traffic.
This is traffic coming from search engines like Google or Bing.
Now, we also want to evaluate whether we have growth in this channel.
If we're publishing more content,
what we're going to expect that our organic traffic grows.
If we're not seeing growth,
well then we have issues.
We might also want to start comparing how traffic from
SEO performance is relative to traffic from other sources.
Let's say a blog article is being trafficked from
an e-mail campaign but we're also getting traffic from our search results.
We can look at the bounce rate.
What if search had a really high bounce rate but e-mail did not have a high bounce rate?
Well then we could figure out perhaps that this content is
not resonating with the group coming in for search.
Perhaps the group coming from e-mail is more familiar with our brand and we need to do
something to help the group coming from
search understand who we are so they stay on the page longer.
Now, let's talk about our social channels.
With our social channels,
we primarily look at engagement metrics but before we look at those,
we might start by asking ourselves,
how much content did we publish?
How did this channel perform as a referral source?
So we're trying to understand if the content we're publishing is driving traffic.
Then we can understand,
is the content that we're publishing bringing us brand engagements?
Are we getting likes, comments and retweets?
We can look at data there to see what our reach was.
How many impressions we generated by impacting and influencing that audience to engage.
Now, the list for everything here can be exhaustive because with owned,
you're going to spend a lot of time comparing
all of these metrics in order to tell a full story.
The important thing is to learn where all of this data lives.
So you know where to go to grab it,
how to compare it and how to use it to answer those key questions.
In just a moment, we'll spend some time exploring
these platforms and the key questions that you'll be answering together.